AEOLUS AVIONICS – TASK 1
AUTONOMOUS ARCHITECTURE

Selected Build: BUILD 2
Sensor: OAK-D Lite + AI
Flight Computer: Raspberry Pi 5, 8 GB RAM


> BUILD SELECTION and WEIGHTAGE

Build 2 was selected based on mission suitability, power consumption,
computational capability, weight and cost.

Our main priority is to get enough sensing and computing capability
without using too much of the drone's power and weight budget.

Weightage used:

    Mission Suitability - 30%
    Power Consumption   - 25%
    Compute Capability  - 20%
    Weight              - 15%
    Cost                - 10%




> SENSORS and COMPUTATIONAL CAPABILITY

The OAK-D Lite is used for depth and visual sensing, connected to Rasp Pi as the companion computer on board.
The OAK-D Lite has onboard processing capabilities for depth, vision and AI workloads.
This thus reduces the load for Rasp Pi, allowing Pi to handle other computational tasks like path navigation, etc with ease

OAK-D Lite and Rasp Pi 5 each handle their own share of work, and maintain a good balance of power consumption and computations.






> POWER AND WEIGHT

Estimated power consumption during normal flight:

	Oak D Lite: about 1-5Watts
	Rasp Pi: 3-12Watts

	Taking Most probable values (Power consumption during most of its flight as representative):

    ~10-12 Watts combined

Estimated weight of OAK-D Lite + Raspberry Pi + wiring + mounts:

	Rasp Pi: 60g
	Oak D Lite: ~60g

    ~120 g 






> COMPARISON WITH OTHER BUILDS

Build 1:
Much Higher computational capability, at the cost of higher power consumption.

Build 3:
LiDAR is not well suited for this exact mission, as it is mainly suitable for distance measuring and environment scanning, rather than object identification and detection. LiDAR also sometimes struggles for depth perception on water bodies, hence, not very suitable for our mission

Build 4:
Similar to our chosen build, but the downside is it's computational capability is weak, as the camera module doesn't do much of 
the workload, hence, Rasp Pi has to work harder, consuming more power.

Build 5:
Best computational capability and excellent detection/navigation, but the only downside is the huge power consumption, and it is slightly overkill for this mission where power availability is limited.






>  Use Case Justification

Build 2 is chosen as it is a balance of computational capability and power consumption.
The Split workload leaves enough computational power on the Rasp Pi for added tasks/requirements.

This keeps the system relatively light, power-efficient and
cost-effective while still providing the required autonomous
capability.

Final selection:

    OAK-D Lite + AI
    Raspberry Pi 5, 8 GB RAM

    Estimated weight: ~120 g
    Estimated power: ~10-12 W
